# Accessing Cloud Environment
You access cloud services mainly via a browser or commandline. In our sessions we will only use Google Chrome Browser.  

For our discussions and classes we will primarily use AWS. So, we will access **AWS Console** via Chrome. 

**Note:** You will need to use a credit card and valid email address to sign up for AWS Account. 

Sign up for an AWS Account [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/SetUp/latest/UserGuide/setup-prereqs-instructions.html). Follow the 3 steps listed under Part 1: Set up a new AWS Account

**Warning:**
* Use a password that is greater than 8 characters, uses mix case, and has alpha numeric letters
* Make sure to activate MFA (you will need a cell phone to do this and will need the cell phone everytime you access AWS)
* Many cloud capabilities cost money so never share your account details with anyone. If someone gets access to your account and launches the Services like Servers, Databases etc. you will be liable for the money
* We will use mostly free tier services during our discussions and labs but there might be cases where we wil use paid services, so it is important to delete the resources you create after we are done with the labs


# Pricing Cloud Services

Let's look at what's considered [Free Tier](https://aws.amazon.com/free/?all-free-tier.sort-by=item.additionalFields.SortRank&all-free-tier.sort-order=asc&awsf.Free%20Tier%20Types=tier%23always-free%7Ctier%2312monthsfree&awsf.Free%20Tier%20Categories=*all)

This [FAQ](https://aws.amazon.com/free/registration-faqs/) provides further details about Free Tier

AWS (and other CSPs) provide online calculators that help businesses estimate an approximate cost of the application they are developing. Let's look at AWS's [pricing calculator](https://calculator.aws/#/)